[i2c,doc] Doc corrections and improvements (#17435)
lowRISC/opentitan: hw/ip/i2c/README.md

- Support for I2C Host ("I2C Master"<sup>1</sup>) and I2C Target ("I2C Slave"<sup>1</sup>) device modes

> - Support for standard (100 kbaud), fast (400 kbaud) and fast-plus (1 Mbaud) modes

Reviewer: The spec uses capitalized words here (e.g. `Standard-mode, Fast-mode, Fast-mode Plus, Fm+, `) so I think we should mirror that.

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

    - No support for host-host clock synchronization
    - No support for host bus arbitration.
- Byte-formatted register interface with four separate queues: two queues in the host mode, one for holding read data, the other for holding bytes to be transmitted (addresses or write data) and two queues in the target mode, for holding read and write data

> - Direct SCL (serial clock line) and SDA (serial data line) control in "Override mode" (for debugging)

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

- SCL and SDA ports mapped to I/O via the pinmux

> - Interrupts in the host mode for FMT and RX (receive) FIFO overflow, target NACK, SCL/SDA signal interference, timeout, unstable SDA signal levels, and transaction complete

Reviewer: I think `(receive)` and `(transmit)` are redundant here.

Line 28 refers to a `register interface with four separate queues`, maybe we should update the language there to TX and RX FIFOs instead of queues?

Author: I left the queues terminology because I couldn't figure out how to reword it without making it sound more complicated. I did add RX and TX to line 28 and removed it from line 31.

## Description

> This IP block implements the [I2C specification](https://web.archive.org/web/20210813122132/https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/user-guide/UM10204.pdf), though with some variation in nomenclature.

Reviewer: (revision 6)

For the purposes of this document, an "I2C Host" meets the specifications put forth for a "Master" device.
Furthermore, a device which meets the specifications put forward for an "I2C Slave" device is here referred to as an "I2C Target" or "I2C Target Device".

At a high-level, the I2C protocol is a clock-parallel serial protocol, with at least one host issuing transactions to a number of targets on the same bus.
Though I2C optionally allows for multiple hosts on the same bus, we do not support this feature at this time.

Every transaction consists of a number of bytes transmitted, either from host-to-target or target-to-host.
Each byte is typically followed by a single bit acknowledgement (ACK) from the receiving side.
Typically each transaction consists of:

> 1. A START signal, issued by the host.

Reviewer: Should these items be bullets, since they are all numbered `1.`? Or is the ordering import here, in which case the numbers should increment.

1. An address, issued by the host, encoded using 7 bits.

> 1. A R/W bit indicating whether the transaction is a read from or a write to the target device, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A R/W bit indicating if the transaction is a read-from or a write-to the target device.
```

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

## Compatibility

> This IP block should be compatible with any target device covered by the [I2C specification](https://web.archive.org/web/20210813122132/https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/user-guide/UM10204.pdf), operating at speeds up to 1 Mbaud.

Reviewer: (revision 6)

### Override Mode for Direct Pin Access

> The I2C hardware interface consists of two external pins, SCL and SDA, whose behavior is described in the [I2C specification](https://web.archive.org/web/20210813122132/https://www.nxp.com/docs/en/user-guide/UM10204.pdf).

Reviewer: (revision 6)

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

These pins are typically controlled by an internal state machine.
However, there is a simpler "override" mode, by which these pins can be directly manipulated by software.

> This override mode is useful for troubleshooting or error recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This override mode is useful for both troubleshooting and error recovery.
```

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

If the module clock is sufficiently faster than I2C line speeds (for example 20MHz), this is not an issue.
However if the line speeds and the module clock speeds become very close (2x), the 1 cycle delay may have an impact, as the internal state machine may mistakenly think it has sampled an SDA that has not yet been updated.

> It is thus recommended to run clock ratios such that the internal module clock is at least 5x-10x the line speeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is recommended that the internal module clock frequency is at least 5-10x the line speeds.
```

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.

Of the four initialization steps, the timing parameter initialization is the most involved.  With so many timing parameters, it is essential to have dedicated device interface functions (DIFs) to determine appropriate values for the 10 timing parameters.

The values of these parameters will depend primarily on three bus details:
- The speed mode of the slowest device on the bus: Standard-mode (100 kbaud), Fast-mode (400 kbaud) or Fast-mode Plus (1 Mbaud).
- The input clock period, t<sub>clk</sub> in ns.
- The expected signal rise time, t<sub>r</sub>, in ns.
  - This is not a firmware-controlled parameter.
  Rather, it is a function of the capacitance and physical design of the bus.
  The specification provides detailed guidelines on how to manage capacitance in an I2C system:
  - Section 5.2 of the I2C specification indicates that Fast-mode Plus devices may operate at reduced clock speeds if the bus capacitance drives signal rise times (t<sub>r</sub>) outside the nominal 120ns limit.

>   Excess capacitance can also be compensated for by reducing the size of the bus pullup resistor, so long as the total open-drain current does not exceed 20mA for Fast-Mode plus devices (as described in section 7.1 of the I2C specification).

Reviewer: `Fast-mode Plus` or `Fm+` (to match the spec)

Author: Thanks, should be resolved now.
